♫14. Song: carols and *hisselly*s (or *eek!*s). When a robin sings
excitedly, sometimes it's not easy to classify his effort into carols
and *hisselly*s. In this recording, let's count the number of low carols
that are followed by a single high *hisselly*: 3, 2, 1, 2, 2, 2, 1, 2,
2, 3, 2, and so on. We should keep in mind, of course, that this
classification into carols and *hisselly*s is a human attempt to grapple
with what the robin is doing; in the robin's scheme, no such absolute
categories may exist, and perhaps, under some circumstances, some of his
song notes are "intended" to be intermediates. The common robin is not
so well understood. May 24, 2017. Hadley, Massachusetts. (5:29)

Play-14

♫15. Song: carols and *hisselly*s. May 31, 2009. Grand Teton National
Park, Wyoming. (3:18)

Play-15

♫16. Song: carols and *hisselly*s. May 16, 2010. Yorktown National
Battlefield, Yorktown, Virginia. (1:10)

Play-16

♫17. Song: *hisselly*s only! Listen carefully to the pattern in which he
delivers them. Hear how repetitive he is, offering several renditions of
a *hisselly* before proceeding to another? April 24, 2014. Walsh Road,
Au Sable State Forest, Lewiston, Michigan. (6:48)

Play-17

♫18. Calls, when arriving in winter roost. January 15, 2006. Whately,
Massachusetts. (1:27)

Play-18

♫19. Calls, sharp and agitated, in defense of a nest. June 2, 2014.
Mt. Greylock State Park, North Adams, Massachusetts. (0:29)

Play-19

♫20. Calls, sounding perturbed; an adult northern hawk owl perches and
calls overhead (e.g., at 0:08, 0:17, 0:30, and more) and young hawk owls
wheeze down below, requesting a meal (e.g., 0:05, 0:06). A northern
flicker also calls throughout the recording (e.g., at 0:04, 0:07, 0:08 .
. . to 0:47). June 16, 2017. Slana, Alaska. (0:56)

Play-20

♫21. Call: the "hawk alarm," high, thin, seemingly ventriloquial. June
25, 2012. Caribou, Maine. (1:12)

Play-21


