♫57. As this female leaves the night roost, she initially calls with
sharp *chip* notes, and then sings (first at 0:19). Beginning at 1:33, I
focus the microphone on her mate, who is using the same song that the
female is singing; they match each other's songs by choosing
appropriately from their shared repertoire of a dozen or so different
songs. April 9, 2017. Hatfield, Massachusetts. (2:27)

Play-57

♫58. Later the same morning, she calls and sings again, the male nearby
(beginning at 1:23) offering the same song. April 9, 2017. Hatfield,
Massachusetts. (1:53)

Play-58

♫59. Seven examples of the female cardinal singing from the nest, with
examples separated by fades. A stereo microphone is used, so both
relative loudness (nearby female is always much louder than the more
distant male) and location in the stereo field can help to identify who
is singing. In examples 1 through 4, the female matches the male's song;
in examples 5-6, no matching; example 7 seems to be an isolated song
from the female (though she could, of course, have heard the male in the
distance). May 2018. Hatfield, Massachusetts. (4:06)

Play-59

CARDINALTABLE1

♫60. Ten examples of the female singing from the nest. Now a monaural
microphone is used (SWIFT--on the home page for this website, click on
LEARN MORE, then RECORDING BIRDSONG), so only relative loudness of the
songs can identify the individual; again, the loud, near bird is the
female. In examples 1 through 4, the female matches the male's song;
examples 5 through 8, no matching; examples 9 and 10, isolated female
songs with no male audible. May 2018. Hatfield, Massachusetts. (2:01)

Play-60

CARDINALTABLE2

