♫72. Yellow-bellied sapsucker: A male drumming during early spring.
April 11, 2017. Cricket Hill, Conway, Massachusetts. (5:14)

Play-72

♫73. Yellow-bellied sapsucker: A community of spring drummers, with some
of the weaker drums those of a female (e.g., at 0:02). April 26, 2008.
Quabbin Park, Ware, Massachusetts. (12:20)

Play-73

♫74. Yellow-bellied sapsucker: My favorite community of drummers, this
one recorded beginning 15 minutes before sunrise and continuing well
after. Note the number of drummers heard in the stereo field and the
variety of substrates that they use, especially after 19:17 in the
recording. 6:22 to 6:50 [a.m.; s]{.smallcaps}unrise at 6:37
[a.m.]{.smallcaps} April 24, 2018. Atlanta, Michigan. (28:09)

Play-74

♫75. Yellow-bellied sapsucker: A tool-using sapsucker, drumming on a
metal fire tower. June 2, 2017. Daughters of the American Revolution
State Forest, Goshen, Massachusetts. (0:36)

Play-75

♫76. Yellow-bellied sapsucker: Another tool-using sapsucker, this time
drumming on a large metal bell atop a building at a resort. May 3, 2015.
Garland Lodge and Golf Resort, Lewiston, Michigan. (0:06)

Play-76

♫77. Red-naped sapsucker: Five drums, together with some vocalizing by
two males and one female. Drums have the sapsucker pattern of an
introductory roll followed by an irregular delivery of double strikes.
June 6, 2009. Big Hole National Battlefield, Wisdom, Montana. (1:23)

Play-77

♫78. Red-breasted Sapsucker: Six drums, in typical sapsucker rhythm. May
24, 2009. William L. Finley National Wildlife Refuge, Corvallis, Oregon.
(1:57)

Play-78

See also Explore 13: The "double-strike" of sapsuckers.
