♫140. Alder flycatcher: Singing male from Alaska. In the background are
a Lincoln's sparrow (e.g., loud at 0:23) and a white-crowned sparrow
(e.g., 0:42). June 16, 2017. Slana, Alaska. (1:51)

Play-140

♫141. Alder flycatcher: Dawn singing from Massachusetts, with song
sparrow, American robin, common yellowthroat, and more. 4:42 to 4:58
a.m. Sunrise at 5:14 a.m. June 7, 2012.
Berkshire Mountains, Heath, Massachusetts. (16:05) Recorded by Janet
Grenzke.

Play-141

♫142. Alder flycatcher: Singing male from Maine, with swamp sparrow and
frogs. June 23, 2012. Westmanland, Maine. (2:56)

Play-142

♫143. Alder flycatcher: Song, with one example from Alaska, one from
Massachusetts, and one from Maine. (0:08)

Play-143

♫144. Willow flycatcher: Songs, from Missouri. June 2, 2008. Prairie
State Park, Mindenmines, Missouri. (4:21)

Play-144

♫145. Willow flycatcher: Songs, from Kentucky, with frogs. May 31, 2010.
Lincoln Homestead State Park, Springfield, Kentucky. (10:40)

Play-145

♫146. Willow flycatcher: Songs, from Massachusetts, a few minutes
excerpted from ♫147. June 19, 2016. Silvio O. Conte National Fish and
Wildlife Refuge, Hadley, Massachusetts. (5:13).

Play-146

♫147. Willow flycatcher: Songs? Yes, indeed, the entire dawn chorus from
one individual. What a marvelous recording to explore in all its glory.
He stirs on his night roost with a couple of soft calls (beginning at
0:04) and soon takes flight, singing on the wing; distant songs in the
flight are heard from 1:13 to 1:20. Listen with headphones and you'll
hear him circle around in this stereo recording. He then settles back on
his perch, and his first true "song" is heard there at 1:49, a *creet*,
then a *FIZZ-bew,* and he's off and running for the next 51 minutes.
4:01 to 4:54 a.m., sunrise at 5:13 a.m. June
19, 2016. Silvio O. Conte National Fish and Wildlife Refuge, Hadley,
Massachusetts. (54:33)

Play-147
