♫227. Song matching, example 1. May 22, 2009. South Slough National
Estuarine Research Reserve, Charleston, Oregon. (6:15)

Play-227

♫228. Eight examples of song matching excerpted from ♫227. May 22, 2009.
South Slough National Estuarine Research Reserve, Charleston, Oregon.
(0:38)

Play-228

♫229. Song matching, example 2; focus on the seven matches that occur
during the following times: 0:00 to 0:03, 0:21 to 0:25, 0:26 to 0:31,
0:34 to 0:37, 0:41 to 0:45, 0:45 to 0:49, and 1:18 to 1:22. June 23,
1994. Lee Metcalf National Wildlife Refuge, Stevensville, Montana.
(1:26)

Play-229

♫230. Over several days, to illustrate how neighboring males often match
each other during countersinging, I worked to record simultaneously two
neighboring males in a drainage ditch beside the road. Alas, although
the two males seem to take turns singing, indicating that they are
listening to each other, I can hear very little, if any, song matching
in these exchanges. How disappointing, yet how illuminating. When and
why marsh wrens choose to play the matched countersinging game remains a
mystery! June 10, 2018. Sierra Valley, California. (10:59)

Play-230

♫231. Nearly an hour of singing from one male. I did my best to hold the
parabolic reflector on him, but he at times escaped my aim for a few
seconds. Enjoy the "raw" field recording---this is the best that I could
do with this male as he flew up and down the drainage ditch beside the
road. Enjoy a good, easy listen, but there's so much you could do to
search for patterns in this male's behavior. June 10, 2018. Sierra
Valley, California. (58:16)

Play-231

♫232. Here's evidence that the male in the previous recording is capable
of repeating himself, that is, he has a set repertoire of discrete song
types that he can recall from memory and sing again. Four examples of
one song type are extracted from the nearly hour-long recording (the
four renditions of this particular song were found at 2:06, 9:18, 30:30,
and 42:51; the song at 13:18 is slightly different). June 10, 2018.
Sierra Valley, California. (0:19)

Play-232

♫233. Not only does a male eventually repeat one of his songs, but the
sequences in which he delivers his different songs are often the same as
well. Here, I've taken the four examples from ♫232 and included the next
two songs as well; careful listening (and sonagram study) reveals that
he sings A B C . . . A B C . . . A B D . . . A B D. Song A is always
followed by song B, which is followed by either C or D. June 10, 2018.
Sierra Valley, California. (0:42)

Play-233

See also Explore 28: Song matching by neighboring western male marsh
wrens.
