♫315. Dialect 1, male 1. Listen to a number of his songs excerpted
from several hours of recording, but realize that your ears can't begin
to hear the details. Those details emerge only when songs are slowed
down. (3:14)

In ♫316, listen to one of those songs at normal speed, then to
that same song slowed to half, quarter, and one-eighth speed. There's
more! He clearly uses two voice boxes to produce those songs. Spanning
the first two notes in that dainty 16-note series of tiny, pure tones is
a higher note, sung simultaneously, revealing the voice of the second
syrinx. (0:52)

In ♫317, with the single high note isolated on the left
track, the series of lower notes on the right track, listen for the two
voices in the first split-second of these recordings slowed to 1/8,
1/16, and 1/32 speed (see book text for more details). March 19, 2017.
Montaña de Oro State Park, Los Osos, California. (0:21).

Play-315

Play-316

Play-317

♫318. Dialect 2, male 2. March 23, 2017. Anza-Borrego Desert State
Park, Borrego Springs, California. (2:04)

Play-318

♫319. Dialect 3, male 3. March 12, 2017. Morro Bay State Park, Morro
Bay, California. (1:18)

Play-319

♫320. Dialect 3, male 4, a neighbor of Male 3. March 12, 2017. Morro
Bay State Park, Morro Bay, California. (0:45) Recorded by Janet
Grenzke.

Play-320

Exploring the differences in dialects: One song from each of the above
four males at normal speed (♫321), half speed (♫322), and
quarter speed (♫323). For the finale, just listen to the scrapes
from each male at quarter speed (♫324). Do you hear three dialects?
It's a challenge, but in the scrapes I hear how the first three are
strikingly different from each other, representing three different
dialects, and how the last two are similar, representing two individuals
from the same dialect. (0:41, 1:07, 2:06, 0:53)

Play-321

Play-322

Play-323

Play-324
