♫400. Here are eight different songs from this male, with each one
repeated multiple times before the next is introduced. Listen carefully
and you will hear him switch to a new song at the following times: 0:45,
2:14, 3:30, 5:37, 6:06, 6:44, and 7:36. June 6 and 18, 2006. Hatfield,
Massachusetts. (8:00)

Play-400

♫401. More cardinal listening; follow along and listen for how he
repeats each song several times, then abruptly switches to a new song
type. But sometimes it's not so abrupt a switch, as he seems to use the
same song beginning with several endings, sometimes alternating the
endings, sometimes singing only incomplete songs. From 0:25 to 1:04, for
example, the first song contains only the introductory whistles, and
then he uses those introductory whistles with three different endings
over the next five songs. Finally, at 11:07, he does switch abruptly and
unequivocally to a new song. Nothing says the cardinal has to follow the
rules that we try to impose on his singing! May 28, 2010. Grundy,
Virginia. (13:19)

Play-401

♫402. More songs, with approaching train. May 23, 2004. Sebree,
Kentucky. (9:44)

Play-402

♫403. And more cardinal songs, accompanied by waves beside the Gulf of
Mexico. March 20, 2004. Naples, Florida. (8:43)

Play-403

♫404. The pyrrhuloxia sings much like its close relative the northern
cardinal. Hear him switch to a new song at 0:20, 0:59, 1:51, and more,
as he sings in the classical "repeat it several times and eventually
switch" mode. April 6, 2013. Chaparral Wildlife Management Area,
Artesia, Texas. (6:06) Recorded by Janet Grenzke.

Play-404


