♫448. A *caw* sampler from two crows calling from a treetop. There's so
much to hear about crows in this selection (see book text for additional
information; a timeline for some of the highlights is given below). June
6, 2006. Hatfield, Massachusetts. (9:25)

Play-448

>0:00-0:19. Three chipping sparrow songs in foreground as a crow approaches from a distance.

>0:10-1:07. Slow, sharp, *ca-ca-ca-ca* from first crow to land in the nearby tree.

>1:11. Frantic calling begins, at double the *ca-ca-ca* pace, then slows again.

>2:40. A second crow has arrived, and they call simultaneously. Listen again, and again, to that two-second burst of crowness. The first crow gives two sharp *ca* notes, the same *ca* notes he was giving before the second bird arrived, but then he switches to the hoarse *caw* that the second bird gave upon arriving. The two now match each other. I love these crows!

>3:17. Simultaneous calling again, both using the hoarse *caw*.

>4:45. More simultaneous calling, and matching, with a slightly different *caw* version.

>5:15. One bird begins with longer *caw* notes than the other, but midway the two birds match each other with the shorter caw again.

And there's so much more to hear, the above being just a few examples of
how these crows interact. Throughout, and in headphones, listen for
slightly different versions of the hoarse *caw* notes, and how the two
birds often match each other's versions.

♫449. A crow can stay on message with the same *caw* for some time. May
27, 2009. Oxbow, Hells Canyon, Oregon. (1:56)

Play-449

♫450. Crows "mobbing" a dead magpie lying on the ground. May 27, 2009.
Oxbow, Hells Canyon, Oregon. (3:03)

Play-450
