> **Seeing the two voices of birds in sonagrams.** Like so many other
> explorations, this one also requires a computer program to graph the
> songs, such as Raven Lite (see book page 3).
>
> In sonagrams, one can see that most birds utter different sounds in
> rapid succession, not simultaneously. One cannot know if these sounds
> are all produced by the same voice box or if the bird rapidly
> alternates between the two sound sources. Only if two very different
> sounds occur simultaneously, with one sound above the other in the
> sonagram, can one know for sure that both voice boxes are engaged.
>
> Consider, for example, the American robin. Download the recording of a
> singing robin (♫14) and *see* how he sings a string of his low carols
> and then punctuates it with a high, screechy *eek*. Is he using one
> voice box throughout, or two? Can\'t tell. Clues come from another
> recording, in which a mid-winter robin seems to be practicing, singing
> his low carols and high screechy *eek*s *simultaneously* (♫129). You
> have to see it to believe it, and then slowing the songs to quarter
> speed helps some more; some of my favorite examples showing two
> simultaneous voices are at 0:39, 0:49, and 0:57). As with other
> songbirds, the low voices (carols) are no doubt from the left syrinx,
> the high voices (*eek*s) from the right. His practice reveals a true,
> two-voice virtuoso, like a wood thrush, but during normal singing he
> chooses, for whatever reason, to sing the carols and *eek*s in
> succession (as in ♫14), rather than simultaneously. How sad, I think,
> as I like the practicing robin better!
>
> ♫129: The robin practicing on a winter morning (Christmas, in fact)
> reveals how the low carols are sung with one voice box (almost
> certainly the left) and the higher *hisselly*s with the other voice
> box (almost certainly the right). December 25, 2005. Amherst,
> Massachusetts. (1:29)
>
> Play-129
