> **Neighboring male songbirds learn from each other.** This listening
> adventure is best done with a species in which each male has only one
> song, because instantly, in one song, a male tells you all he knows
> for the comparison you are about to make: the relative similarity in
> the songs of neighboring males. Chipping sparrows, the two buntings,
> and yellowthroats are good for this project, simply because two
> neighboring individuals with identical songs are so noticeable for
> these species in which there is such great song variety *among* the
> individuals in a population. Perhaps try listening to some of the many
> other songbird species in which each male has a single song (see page
> xx). Whenever you encounter a singing male of one of these species,
> listen carefully, memorizing the song pattern, and then listen for a
> song from the nearest neighbor. Very different? Similar? Identical!?
> As you listen, you tune your ears for what is important to the birds,
> and come a little closer to understanding how the world of birdsong is
> put together.
>
> **Advanced exploration!** Here's a fine listening experience, though
> by ear alone you almost certainly will not be able to confirm what I
> tell you. In the mild climates of the West, from coastal California
> and on up through western Washington, where the winters are mild and
> where many birds are resident year-round, take a birding stroll,
> listening to song sparrows, spotted towhees, and Bewick's wrens.
> Unlike the examples given above, the sparrows and towhees have about
> 10 songs apiece, the wrens 16 to 20. Over a few hundred yards the
> songs change, because distance leads to a degree of isolation: Open
> fields or unsuitable habitats intervene, so that the singing birds at
> even short distances are to some degree isolated from each other. When
> young birds leave mom and dad and disperse, they settle on their own
> breeding territory some distance away, from a few hundred yards to a
> mile or so. The young males then learn the songs at their own breeding
> location, forsaking whatever it was that they had learned from their
> singing father, thereby perpetuating the local micro-dialect where
> they settle. With considerable effort, you could document how these
> songs change over a distance, by recording males at various locations
> and seeing the differences in sonagrams from those places. My
> suggestion if you choose to do this: Start with the spotted towhee,
> because males have fewer songs in their repertoire and each male
> quickly tells you all his songs during the dawn chorus (but you gotta
> get out early!).
>
> That project was, in fact, the subject of my first publication as a
> budding professional ornithologist: Kroodsma, D. E. "Song Variations
> and Singing Behavior in the Rufous-sided Towhee, *Pipilo
> erythrophthalmus oregonus*." *Condor* **73 (1971)**:303--308.
