> **Dialects in black-capped chickadee songs.** Everywhere you travel in
> black-capped chickadee country, listen carefully. Are you in the
> *hey-sweetie* dialect region? Be sure to get close enough to your
> singer so that you can hear that slight waver between the two
> syllables of the *sweetie* note (p. 8); if you are too distant, the
> reverberation from the *sweet* bouncing off vegetation between you and
> the singer can obscure that waver. For a special chickadee encounter,
> experience one of those strikingly different dialects in western
> Washington or Oregon. Or try those odd dialects on East Coast islands,
> such as Martha's Vineyard or Nantucket. Listen wherever you travel
> throughout North America and maybe you will discover yet another local
> dialect, different from the *hey-sweetie*s, such as someone did in
> Fort Collins, Colorado.
>
> We are going off topic here, but we take listening experiences where
> we find them: Listen again to the chickadee and the spotted towhee in
> ♫257. How often do the two males of these two different species
> overlap their songs? They mostly alternate, don't they, overlapping
> far less often than if they were ignoring each other? Each bird
> clearly seems to be trying to avoid the interference of the other. Or
> it is possible that one bird is the dominant singer, and the second
> bird inserts his songs into the silent spaces between the songs of the
> other. If you are numerically inclined, you could collect some numbers
> to demonstrate the extent to which overlap of songs is avoided. When
> attuned to how nearby singing males often avoid interference with each
> other, you will hear this phenomenon more often. Keep listening!
