**An *extreme* blackbird challenge for you!** A year later, during2018, I returned to the same territory and recorded a male red-wingthere, on April 22 (♫495) and again on April 24 (♫496). Once again, Iwaited for him in the dark, and each morning I stayed with him,recording him through sunrise for about an hour (50 minutes the firstmorning, 67 the second). Questions abound! Is this male the same asthe one I recorded during 2017 and offered some analysis about, above?If he is (based on his frenetic behavior, I bet he is!), the songsfrom the two years would be the same, as males do not change theirsongs appreciably from one year to the next. You can make sonagrams inRaven Lite for the two years and find the answer yourself, but don'tconfuse the weaker songs of the background bird (e.g., at 0:12 in♫495) with those of your focal bird; choose only the louder songs asthose of the focal male. How does this male's calling and singingprogram in 2018 compare to the program that I have analyzed above for2017? What other questions cross your mind?

♫495: From the same territory as ♫328, just a year later; it's a latespring, with the marsh and entire lake still frozen over (hence thelate start relative to sunrise?). 6:31-7:22 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} Sunriseat 6:41 [a.m.]{.smallcaps}. April 22, 2018. Atlanta, Michigan (50:10)

Play-495

♫496: Another 2018 dawn from the same territory. Sometimes he is nearthe microphone, other times more distant, making it a little difficultto follow him. 6:25-7:32 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} Sunrise at 6:37[a.m.]{.smallcaps}. April 24, 2018. Atlanta, Michigan (1:07:00)

Play-496
