**Sage thrasher songs, through the night.** How (and when, where, why)birds sing in the night puts us in largely uncharted territory. Forthree nights, from the evening of June 12 to the morning of June 15,2018, in Sierra Valley, California, I placed a Swift recorder (see"Recording birdsong") near a male's night roost. He obliged with anoutpouring of song, and for two mornings I followed him after he lefthis night roost, to enable a comparison of his "day" songs with his"night" songs (♫518--531).

You can use these recordings to explore so many questions that arecurrently unanswered: Exactly when in the night does he sing? Is itthe same pattern night after night? How do night songs compare to daysongs, in duration, complexity, or whatever other measure you can comeup with? In just a quick sampling of songs from ♫523, just aftermidnight on June 14, I was astonished to see that this free-wheelingbird that I knew from the daytime, who sang what seemed an endlessvariety of songs, was *repeating himself*, with successive songs attimes identical! Compare songs at 8:14 and 8:58, for example, or thetwo at 14:14 and 15:24, or the five-second songs at 24:06 and 24:44. Idid not realize that a sage thrasher was capable of repeating himselflike this.

I love listening for mimicry: soras, barn swallows, so many more.After marveling at the enormous variety of sounds, I pick one that Ican readily distinguish from all the others, such as the twopure-toned notes that sound like the introductory notes of a vespersparrow song---in ♫528, hear them at 1:36, 2:37, and 3:48. Then I tryto find them again. Want to join me in the search? The search isfaster if you scroll through the sonagrams in Raven Lite, withoutactually listening. Any luck finding where those particular notesrecur? What have you learned about sage thrashers in the process?

Morning of June 12
♫518. Here is a good sample of dawn singing after the male leaves hisnight singing roost. In the distance, hear one song from this male'snight perch (from 0:02 to 0:17); by 0:25 he is flying toward where themicrophone will record him for the next 99 minutes! 4:50 to 6:29[a.m.;]{.smallcaps} sunrise at 5:33 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} June 12, 2018.Sierra Valley, California. (1:38:37)

Night of June 12--13
♫519. Sporadic songs recorded during evening of June 12, early morningof June 13, from 9:10 [p.m]{.smallcaps}. to 2:38 [a.m.]{.smallcaps};sunset at 8:30 [p.m]{.smallcaps}. Recording consists of 10 briefsections, with fades between. Songs occur at the following times aftersunset: 9:[10 p.m.,]{.smallcaps} 11:32 [p.m.,]{.smallcaps} 11:38[p.m.,]{.smallcaps} 11:41 [p.m.,]{.smallcaps} 12:41[a.m.]{.smallcaps}, 12:55 [a.m.]{.smallcaps}, 1:05 [a.m.]{.smallcaps},1:31 [a.m.]{.smallcaps}, 2:12 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} (2 songs), 2:38[a.m.]{.smallcaps} (total duration of singing, 1:38).

♫520. Continuous singing begins at 2:43 [a.m.]{.smallcaps}, continuingto 3 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} in this recording. (16:27)

♫521. Continuous singing, 3 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} to 4 [a.m]{.smallcaps}. (1:00:00)

♫522Continuous singing, 4 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} to 4:52[a.m.,]{.smallcaps} until he leaves his night roost[.]{.smallcaps}During the last four minutes, he seems to have moved closer to themicrophone---a real ham! (51:47)

Night of June 13--14
Sunset (8:30 p.m.) to midnight: No singing.

♫523. 12:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} to 1:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} Singing from12:16 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} to 1:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} (total duration ofsinging, with long silent intervals removed: 43:35)

♫524. 1:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} to 2:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} Continuoussinging. Coyote chorus begins at 43:40. (1:00:00)

♫525. 2:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} to 3:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} Continuoussinging from 2:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} to 2:14 [a.m.]{.smallcaps},followed by three brief songs given at 2:21, 2:24, and 2:41[a.m.]{.smallcaps} (recording has fades between those songs). (14:01)

♫526. 3:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} to 4:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} Three briefsongs given at 3:01 [a.m.]{.smallcaps}, 3:20 [a.m.]{.smallcaps}, 3:43[a.m.]{.smallcaps}; then a group of five songs beginning at 3:48[a.m.]{.smallcaps}, then continuous singing from 3:54[a.m.]{.smallcaps} to 4 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} (8:10)

♫527. 4:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} to 5:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} Continuoussinging until 4:52 [a.m.]{.smallcaps}, when he leaves his night roostand flies to a nearby fence line (recording continues in ♫528). Duringthe last three minutes, he's louder, as if he's perched higher andperhaps closer to the microphone, where I have erected a fence postjust in case he wanted a higher perch. (51:38)

♫528. 4:52 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} to 6:15 [a.m.;]{.smallcaps} sunrise at5:33 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} At 0:15 in this recording, just after hedeparts his night roost, the male flies past the microphone and landson the fence post about 10 yards away. From there, he sings almostnonstop for 44 minutes, then more distantly for some time beforereturning to sing near the microphone again from roughly minute 57 to63, and again from minutes 73 to 83. (1:23:16)

Night of June 14--15
Sunset (8:30 p.m.) to 12:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps}: No singing.

♫529. 12:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} to 1:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} He singsisolated songs at 12:20, 12:41, 12:48 (recording has fades betweensongs), and then he begins singing at 12:55. (5:39)

♫530. 1:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} to 2:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} Continuoussinging. (1:00:00)

♫531. 2:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} to 3:00 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} Continuoussinging until 2:19 [a.m.]{.smallcaps}, and then nothing until 4:50[a.m.]{.smallcaps}, when he can be heard in the distance at his dawnsinging perch. Where was he between 2:19 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} and 4:50[a.m.]{.smallcaps}? Still in his night perch and quiet? A greatdistance away (about one hundred yards or more) so that the microphonewould not pick him up? My best guess is that he was in place andquiet---but that seems so unlike what he did the previous two nights.(19:14)

Perhaps a confession is in order. The night singing was recorded by a
Swift recorder (monaural; see "Recording birdsong" for the recording
gear I use) placed near the bird's night roost. I was not there. On two
mornings I arrived about 4 a.m. to be ready for his singing once he
departed his night roost; those songs, when he was on the fence posts
beside the road, were recorded with a stereo shotgun microphone
(Audio-Technica BP4027). I wasn't there then either! I was off listening
to western meadowlarks, marsh wrens, yellow-headed blackbirds, and
whatever else was singing. The sage thrasher predictably sang from the
same perches, so he took care of recording himself.
