**The joy of western meadowlark songs.** Want to explore these westernmeadowlarks some more? Come along with me to Sierra Valley in easternCalifornia where, during 2018, I just couldn't get enough of them (formeadowlark lovers everywhere, over four and a half hours of recordingsare provided here!). One male (call him Bird 1) offered plenty oflistening material. Try warming up with ♫620 for nearly nine minutesof song. Hear how repetitive he is, beginning in the followingpattern: A B B B B B C C C C C D D D D D D E E E E E E . . . plusanother 34 songs. In ♫621 you will find another 138 songs from thesame male, these two recordings spanning sunrise. Altogether, in these195 songs the male revealed a repertoire of 13 different songs; in♫622 I have copied two renditions of each of the 13, so that you canquickly listen to his entire repertoire.

For more from that same bird two days later, try ♫623 for another 8minutes. Or ♫624 for *an hour and a half* spanning sunrise(unedited--- sometimes the male far, sometimes near, with cattle, ofcourse; feel the "you-are-there" experience as it was recorded in thefield!). Hear how Bird 1 and a meadowlark in the distance match songson occasion (e.g., from 1:24:11 to 1:24:35)? What else do you hear?For even more from this meadowlark, listen to ♫625 for another twohours!

There is also Bird 2, the immediate neighbor of Bird 1 (♫626, ♫627).These two neighbors share at least four songs in their repertoires, asheard in ♫628, where matching songs from the two birds are played backto back (i.e., they can and do learn their songs from each other).And, yes, there's also Bird 3 (♫629), should you ask.

Taken together, these recordings offer a marvelous opportunity toexplore what western meadowlark singing is all about!

♫620: Bird 1. 57 songs over nearly 9 minutes. He's highly repetitive,beginning in the following pattern: A B B B B B C C C C C D D D D D DE E E E E E . . . plus another 34 songs. 5:14 to 5:23 [a.m.;s]{.smallcaps}unrise at 5:33 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} June 10, 2018. SierraValley, California. (8:52) Recorded by Janet Grenzke.

Play-620

♫621: Bird 1. Another 138 songs over nearly 24 minutes. 5:34 to 5:58[a.m.; s]{.smallcaps}unrise at 5:33 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} June 10, 2018.Sierra Valley, California. (23:50) Recorded by Janet Grenzke.

Play-621

♫622: Bird 1. Two examples of each of his 13 different songs. June 10,2018. Sierra Valley, California. (3:42) Recorded by Janet Grenzke.

Play-622

♫623: Bird 1. Two days later, more from the same western meadowlark,now accompanied by a horned lark (same bird as in ♫483). 7:19 to 7:27[a.m.; s]{.smallcaps}unrise at 5:33 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} June 12, 2018.Sierra Valley, California. (8:17)

Play-623

♫624: Bird 1. An unedited hour and a half, spanning sunrise. 5:04 to6:34 [a.m.;]{.smallcaps} sunrise at 5:33 [a.m.]{.smallcaps} June 12,2018. Sierra Valley, California. (1:29:33 ) Recorded by Janet Grenzke.

Play-624

♫625: Bird 1. *Even more* from him, *lots more*, beginning with hisvery first song of the morning, perhaps stimulated by a passing car.4:58 to 7:09 [a.m.; s]{.smallcaps}unrise at 5:33 [a.m.]{.smallcaps}June 14, 2018. Sierra Valley, California. (2:11:31)

Play-625

♫626: Bird 2, the immediate neighbor of Bird 1. Five separaterecordings are joined here, separated by fades. The cattle areespecially vocal this morning! June 12, 2018. Sierra Valley,California. (18:19)

Play-626

♫627: Bird 2. Three separate recordings spliced together, with fadesbetween them. My favorite sage thrasher can often be heard in thebackground (see ♫518-531). June 14, 2018. Sierra Valley, California.(14:44 ) Recorded by Janet Grenzke.

Play-627

♫628: Birds 1 and 2, on neighboring territories, share four songs intheir repertoires. Four pairs of songs are in this recording, thefirst of each pair from Bird 1, the second from Bird 2. June 10-12,2018. Sierra Valley, California. (0:38) Recorded by Janet Grenzke.

Play-628

♫629: Bird 3, the neighbor of both Birds 1 and 2, in three segments,with fades between the separate recordings. In the background onoccasion is another fairly loud meadowlark (e.g., 9:20 to 10:27). June14, 2018. Sierra Valley, California. (18:27) Recorded by JanetGrenzke.

Play-629
